README.md, before:

# SteuerEx Benchmark - Participant Guide

## Overview

The SteuerEx Benchmark is an evaluation framework for assessing language model performance on German tax law questions. This benchmark uses a rigorous bootstrap-based evaluation methodology to ensure reliable and reproducible results. This benchmark is based on the SteuerLLM paper (SteuerLLM: Local specialized large language model for German tax law analysis).

**Official Server**: https://steuerllm.i5.ai.fau.de/benchmark
**SeuerLLM Demo**: https://steuerllm.i5.ai.fau.de

## Dataset

The benchmark consists of **115 questions** covering various aspects of German tax law. All questions are evaluated using the same bootstrap methodology used in the original paper.
https://huggingface.co/datasets/windprak/SteuerEx
<details>
<summary><strong>Question Categories (click to expand)</strong></summary>

| Category | Exam Name | Subtopic (German) | Subtopic (English) | Questions [n] | Max. Points |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS18 | Gewerbesteuer | Trade tax | 1 | 12.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS18 | Körperschaftsteuer | Corporate income tax | 4 | 36.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS18 | Umwandlungssteuer | Reorganization tax | 2 | 6.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS19 | Gewerbesteuer | Trade tax | 1 | 13.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS19 | Körperschaftsteuer | Corporate income tax | 6 | 34.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS19 | Umwandlungssteuer | Reorganization tax | 1 | 6.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS20 | Gewerbesteuer | Trade tax | 1 | 19.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS20 | Körperschaftsteuer | Corporate income tax | 5 | 30.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS20 | Umwandlungssteuer | Reorganization tax | 1 | 7.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS22 | Gewerbesteuer | Trade tax | 1 | 10.5 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS22 | Körperschaftsteuer | Corporate income tax | 10 | 36.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS22 | Umwandlungssteuer | Reorganization tax | 3 | 6.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS23 | Körperschaftsteuer | Corporate income tax | 4 | 20.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS23 | Körperschaft- & Gewerbesteuer | Corporate & trade tax | 3 | 24.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS23 | Umwandlungssteuer | Reorganization tax | 1 | 2.0 |
| Fundamentals of tax law (Grundlagen des Steuerrechts) | GrldStR WS23/24 | International tax law | International tax law | 1 | 7.0 |
| Fundamentals of tax law (Grundlagen des Steuerrechts) | GrldStR WS23/24 | Umsatzsteuer | Value-added tax | 4 | 20.0 |

</details>

## How it works

1. **Generate Answers**: Participants generate answers to 115 German tax law questions using their model.
2. **Upload Predictions**: The predictions are submitted to the SteuerEx server as a JSON file.
3. **Server-Side Evaluation**: On the server, each answer is compared against gold-standard reference statements. An LLM judge (`gpt-4o`) evaluates how well each answer matches the reference, awarding partial or full points per statement. Evaluation is performed using **your own OpenAI API key**, so you are only charged for your own submissions.
4. **Bootstrap Scoring**: Points are aggregated and bootstrap resampling (B=1000, seed=42) computes the final score with confidence intervals.

![SteuerEx Benchmark Answering and Evaluation](figures/Figure_SteuerEx.png)

### Data Format

Each question includes:
- `id`: Unique question identifier
- `exam`: Source examination
- `year`: Academic year
- `title`: Question title
- `category`: Tax law category
- `max_score`: Maximum points achievable
- `question`: Full question text

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- Internet connection for submission

### Installation

```bash
# Install required packages
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Files Provided

```
client/
├── requirements.txt           # Python dependencies
├── generate_predictions.py    # Template for generating predictions
└── submit_predictions.py      # Submission script

benchmark-questions.json       # All 115 questions (no reference answers)
```

## Generating Predictions

### Step 1: Implement Your Model

Edit `generate_predictions.py` to implement your model's prediction logic:

```python
def generate_answer(question_data):
    """
    Generate an answer for a given question.
    
    Args:
        question_data: Dict with keys 'id', 'question', 'max_score', etc.
    
    Returns:
        str: Your model's answer
    """
    # TODO: Implement your model here
    # Example: Call your LLM, retrieval system, etc.
    
    answer = your_model.generate(question_data['question'])
    return answer
```

### Step 2: Generate Predictions

```bash
python generate_predictions.py
```

This creates `predictions.json` with your model's answers.

### Submission Format

Your submission must be a JSON file mapping question IDs to answer strings:

```json
{
  "1001": "Your answer to question 1001...",
  "1002": "Your answer to question 1002...",
  ...
  "1115": "Your answer to question 1115..."
}
```

**Requirements:**
- **All 115 question IDs must be present**
- All answers must be non-empty strings
- Use UTF-8 encoding

## Submitting Predictions

### Command Line Submission

```bash
python submit_predictions.py predictions.json \
  --model "YourModelName-v1" \
  --key "GerTaxLaw2025" \
  --openai-key "sk-..." \
  --server "https://steuerllm.i5.ai.fau.de/benchmark"
```

### Parameters

- `predictions.json`: Path to your predictions file
- `--model` / `-m`: Your model name (required)
- `--key` / `-k`: Submission key (default: `GerTaxLaw2025`)
- `--openai-key` / `-o`: Your OpenAI API key (required) — used for GPT-4o evaluation, not stored on the server
- `--server` / `-s`: Server URL (default: `https://steuerllm.i5.ai.fau.de/benchmark`)

> **Note**: You need an [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys) with access to `gpt-4o`. The key is used solely to run the GPT-4o evaluation on your submission and is never written to disk or logs. See the [Disclaimer & API Key Policy](#disclaimer--api-key-policy) below before submitting.

### Evaluation Cost

Evaluation uses GPT-4o to score each answer against reference statements. Typical costs per submission:

| Answer length | Estimated cost |
|---|---|
| Short answers (~500 chars) | ~$3–$5 USD |
| Medium answers (~2,000 chars) | ~$5–$8 USD |
| Long/detailed answers (~5,000+ chars) | ~$8–$12 USD |

**GPT-4o pricing**: $2.50 / 1M input tokens · $10.00 / 1M output tokens (752 statements evaluated per submission).

The server returns a cost estimate immediately after your submission is accepted, before evaluation begins. This is an approximation; actual cost may vary ±20% depending on GPT-4o response length.

> **Recommendation**: Set a [spending limit](https://platform.openai.com/settings/organization/limits) of $15 USD on your API key to cap worst-case costs.

### Submission Limits

- **5 submissions per IP address**
- Results are final once submitted

## Evaluation Methodology

### Bootstrap-Based Evaluation

The benchmark uses **points-based bootstrap resampling** with the following parameters:

- **B = 1,000**: Number of bootstrap replicates
- **Seed = 42**: Fixed random seed for reproducibility
- **Target = 1,035.5 points**: Constrained bootstrap target

### Scoring

1. Each answer is evaluated by GPT-4 against reference answers
2. Points are awarded based on correctness (0 to max_score)
3. Bootstrap resampling calculates mean performance and confidence intervals
4. Results reported as: **Mean% ± SD [95% CI: Low, High]**

### Example Result

```
Performance: 85% ± 3 [95% CI: 79, 91]
Total Score: 881.7/1035.5 (85.1%)
Questions: 115
```

**Interpretation:**
- **85%**: Mean performance across 1,000 bootstrap samples
- **± 3**: Standard deviation (uncertainty measure)
- **[79, 91]**: 95% confidence interval
- **881.7/1035.5**: Raw points earned

## Workflow

### 1. Review the Questions

Examine the benchmark questions to understand the task:

```python
import json

with open('benchmark-questions.json', 'r') as f:
    questions = json.load(f)

# Review question structure
for q in questions[:5]:
    print(f"ID: {q['id']}, Category: {q['category']}, Max Score: {q['max_score']}")
    print(f"Question: {q['question'][:200]}...")
```

### 2. Implement Your Model

Edit `client/generate_predictions.py` to add your model logic.

### 3. Generate Predictions

Run the generation script to create answers for all 115 questions:

```bash
cd client
python generate_predictions.py
```

This creates `predictions.json` with all 115 answers.

### 4. Submit

Submit your predictions once:

```bash
python submit_predictions.py predictions.json -m "YourModel-v1" -o "sk-..."
```

## Best Practices

### Model Development

1. **Review benchmark questions**: Understand the scope and difficulty of all 115 questions
2. **Consider question difficulty**: Questions have varying max_scores (1-51 points)
3. **Handle long questions**: Some questions exceed 1,000 words
4. **Provide detailed answers**: Reference specific legal paragraphs when applicable
5. **Test your implementation**: Validate your model produces answers for all questions
6. **Use correct parameters**: Set `temperature=0` and `max_tokens=4096` to match benchmark evaluation
7. **Remove thinking traces**: If your model outputs `<think>...</think>` blocks, remove them before submission

### Answer Quality

- Cite relevant legal provisions (e.g., "§ 15 Abs. 1 S. 1 Nr. 2 EStG")
- Show calculations where applicable
- Structure complex answers clearly
- Use proper legal terminology
- Provide reasoning, not just conclusions

### Technical Considerations

- **Encoding**: Use UTF-8 for German characters (ä, ö, ü, ß)
- **Validation**: Test your submission format with `example_submission.json`
- **Error handling**: Check submission status and error messages
- **Timeout**: Evaluation may take several minutes

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Validation Error: Missing question IDs**
```
Solution: Ensure all 115 question IDs are in your predictions.json
```

**Validation Error: Empty answers**
```
Solution: All answers must be non-empty strings
```

**Submission rejected: Too many submissions**
```
Solution: Up to 5 submissions per IP address are allowed
```

**OpenAI API key validation failed**
```
Solution: Provide a valid OpenAI API key starting with 'sk-'.
Ensure your key has access to gpt-4o.
Get a key at https://platform.openai.com/api-keys
```

**Evaluation failed or timed out**
```
Unfortunately no re-evaluation or refund is provided for failed evaluations.
See the Disclaimer section. You may resubmit with a new (different) predictions file
if you have remaining submissions.
```

**Connection Error**
```
Solution: Check server URL and network connection
```

### Getting Help

If you encounter issues:

1. Check the example submission format
2. Validate your JSON syntax
3. Review error messages carefully
4. Ensure all requirements are met

## Disclaimer & API Key Policy

> **Read carefully before submitting.**

- **Use a restricted, dedicated API key.** Create a new key at [platform.openai.com/api-keys](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys) with a spending limit sized for this benchmark (~$3–$12 USD per submission). **Never use your primary or unrestricted API key.**

- **Key not persisted.** Your OpenAI API key is held in server memory solely for the duration of the evaluation and is never written to disk, logs, or any database. However, no server can guarantee absolute security against all possible threats.

- **No liability for API charges.** The service provider accepts no responsibility whatsoever for any OpenAI API charges incurred, whether from normal evaluation, unexpected errors, retries, or any other cause.

- **No liability for failed or incomplete evaluations.** Evaluations may fail, time out, or produce incorrect results due to OpenAI API errors, rate limits, server issues, or any other reason. We provide no guarantee of evaluation success, accuracy, or completeness. No refund or re-evaluation is guaranteed in any case.

- **No liability for security incidents.** In the event of a server breach, compromise, or any other security incident, the service provider accepts no responsibility for any resulting unauthorized API usage, charges, or damages of any kind.

- **By submitting, you explicitly accept all of the above risks and waive any claims against the service provider, FAU Erlangen-Nürnberg, and its contributors.**

## Citation

If you use this benchmark in your research, please cite:

```bibtex
@article{steuerllm,
  author = {Wind, Sebastian and Sopa, Jeta and Schmid, Laurin and Jackl, Quirin and Kiefer, Sebastian and Wu, Fei and Mayr, Martin and Köstler, Harald and Wellein, Gerhard and Maier, Andreas and Tayebi Arasteh, Soroosh},
  title = {SteuerLLM: Local specialized large language model for German tax law analysis},
  year = {2026},
  journal = {arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.11081},
  url = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.11081}
}
```

## Leaderboard

View current rankings and detailed results at:
```
https://steuerllm.i5.ai.fau.de/benchmark/leaderboard_page
```

## License

This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).

---

**Version**: 1.1  
**Last Updated**: February 2026  
**Benchmark Questions**: 115 total

Commit message:

Add gpt-4o access requirement to disclaimer

README.md, after:

# SteuerEx Benchmark - Participant Guide

## Overview

The SteuerEx Benchmark is an evaluation framework for assessing language model performance on German tax law questions. This benchmark uses a rigorous bootstrap-based evaluation methodology to ensure reliable and reproducible results. This benchmark is based on the SteuerLLM paper (SteuerLLM: Local specialized large language model for German tax law analysis).

**Official Server**: https://steuerllm.i5.ai.fau.de/benchmark
**SeuerLLM Demo**: https://steuerllm.i5.ai.fau.de

## Dataset

The benchmark consists of **115 questions** covering various aspects of German tax law. All questions are evaluated using the same bootstrap methodology used in the original paper.
https://huggingface.co/datasets/windprak/SteuerEx
<details>
<summary><strong>Question Categories (click to expand)</strong></summary>

| Category | Exam Name | Subtopic (German) | Subtopic (English) | Questions [n] | Max. Points |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS18 | Gewerbesteuer | Trade tax | 1 | 12.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS18 | Körperschaftsteuer | Corporate income tax | 4 | 36.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS18 | Umwandlungssteuer | Reorganization tax | 2 | 6.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS19 | Gewerbesteuer | Trade tax | 1 | 13.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS19 | Körperschaftsteuer | Corporate income tax | 6 | 34.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS19 | Umwandlungssteuer | Reorganization tax | 1 | 6.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS20 | Gewerbesteuer | Trade tax | 1 | 19.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS20 | Körperschaftsteuer | Corporate income tax | 5 | 30.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS20 | Umwandlungssteuer | Reorganization tax | 1 | 7.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS22 | Gewerbesteuer | Trade tax | 1 | 10.5 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS22 | Körperschaftsteuer | Corporate income tax | 10 | 36.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS22 | Umwandlungssteuer | Reorganization tax | 3 | 6.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS23 | Körperschaftsteuer | Corporate income tax | 4 | 20.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS23 | Körperschaft- & Gewerbesteuer | Corporate & trade tax | 3 | 24.0 |
| Corporate tax (Unternehmensbesteuerung) | UnternehmenSt SS23 | Umwandlungssteuer | Reorganization tax | 1 | 2.0 |
| Fundamentals of tax law (Grundlagen des Steuerrechts) | GrldStR WS23/24 | International tax law | International tax law | 1 | 7.0 |
| Fundamentals of tax law (Grundlagen des Steuerrechts) | GrldStR WS23/24 | Umsatzsteuer | Value-added tax | 4 | 20.0 |

</details>

## How it works

1. **Generate Answers**: Participants generate answers to 115 German tax law questions using their model.
2. **Upload Predictions**: The predictions are submitted to the SteuerEx server as a JSON file.
3. **Server-Side Evaluation**: On the server, each answer is compared against gold-standard reference statements. An LLM judge (`gpt-4o`) evaluates how well each answer matches the reference, awarding partial or full points per statement. Evaluation is performed using **your own OpenAI API key**, so you are only charged for your own submissions.
4. **Bootstrap Scoring**: Points are aggregated and bootstrap resampling (B=1000, seed=42) computes the final score with confidence intervals.

![SteuerEx Benchmark Answering and Evaluation](figures/Figure_SteuerEx.png)

### Data Format

Each question includes:
- `id`: Unique question identifier
- `exam`: Source examination
- `year`: Academic year
- `title`: Question title
- `category`: Tax law category
- `max_score`: Maximum points achievable
- `question`: Full question text

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- Internet connection for submission

### Installation

```bash
# Install required packages
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Files Provided

```
client/
├── requirements.txt           # Python dependencies
├── generate_predictions.py    # Template for generating predictions
└── submit_predictions.py      # Submission script

benchmark-questions.json       # All 115 questions (no reference answers)
```

## Generating Predictions

### Step 1: Implement Your Model

Edit `generate_predictions.py` to implement your model's prediction logic:

```python
def generate_answer(question_data):
    """
    Generate an answer for a given question.
    
    Args:
        question_data: Dict with keys 'id', 'question', 'max_score', etc.
    
    Returns:
        str: Your model's answer
    """
    # TODO: Implement your model here
    # Example: Call your LLM, retrieval system, etc.
    
    answer = your_model.generate(question_data['question'])
    return answer
```

### Step 2: Generate Predictions

```bash
python generate_predictions.py
```

This creates `predictions.json` with your model's answers.

### Submission Format

Your submission must be a JSON file mapping question IDs to answer strings:

```json
{
  "1001": "Your answer to question 1001...",
  "1002": "Your answer to question 1002...",
  ...
  "1115": "Your answer to question 1115..."
}
```

**Requirements:**
- **All 115 question IDs must be present**
- All answers must be non-empty strings
- Use UTF-8 encoding

## Submitting Predictions

### Command Line Submission

```bash
python submit_predictions.py predictions.json \
  --model "YourModelName-v1" \
  --key "GerTaxLaw2025" \
  --openai-key "sk-..." \
  --server "https://steuerllm.i5.ai.fau.de/benchmark"
```

### Parameters

- `predictions.json`: Path to your predictions file
- `--model` / `-m`: Your model name (required)
- `--key` / `-k`: Submission key (default: `GerTaxLaw2025`)
- `--openai-key` / `-o`: Your OpenAI API key (required) — used for GPT-4o evaluation, not stored on the server
- `--server` / `-s`: Server URL (default: `https://steuerllm.i5.ai.fau.de/benchmark`)

> **Note**: You need an [OpenAI API key](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys) with access to `gpt-4o`. The key is used solely to run the GPT-4o evaluation on your submission and is never written to disk or logs. See the [Disclaimer & API Key Policy](#disclaimer--api-key-policy) below before submitting.

### Evaluation Cost

Evaluation uses GPT-4o to score each answer against reference statements. Typical costs per submission:

| Answer length | Estimated cost |
|---|---|
| Short answers (~500 chars) | ~$3–$5 USD |
| Medium answers (~2,000 chars) | ~$5–$8 USD |
| Long/detailed answers (~5,000+ chars) | ~$8–$12 USD |

**GPT-4o pricing**: $2.50 / 1M input tokens · $10.00 / 1M output tokens (752 statements evaluated per submission).

The server returns a cost estimate immediately after your submission is accepted, before evaluation begins. This is an approximation; actual cost may vary ±20% depending on GPT-4o response length.

> **Recommendation**: Set a [spending limit](https://platform.openai.com/settings/organization/limits) of $15 USD on your API key to cap worst-case costs.

### Submission Limits

- **5 submissions per IP address**
- Results are final once submitted

## Evaluation Methodology

### Bootstrap-Based Evaluation

The benchmark uses **points-based bootstrap resampling** with the following parameters:

- **B = 1,000**: Number of bootstrap replicates
- **Seed = 42**: Fixed random seed for reproducibility
- **Target = 1,035.5 points**: Constrained bootstrap target

### Scoring

1. Each answer is evaluated by GPT-4 against reference answers
2. Points are awarded based on correctness (0 to max_score)
3. Bootstrap resampling calculates mean performance and confidence intervals
4. Results reported as: **Mean% ± SD [95% CI: Low, High]**

### Example Result

```
Performance: 85% ± 3 [95% CI: 79, 91]
Total Score: 881.7/1035.5 (85.1%)
Questions: 115
```

**Interpretation:**
- **85%**: Mean performance across 1,000 bootstrap samples
- **± 3**: Standard deviation (uncertainty measure)
- **[79, 91]**: 95% confidence interval
- **881.7/1035.5**: Raw points earned

## Workflow

### 1. Review the Questions

Examine the benchmark questions to understand the task:

```python
import json

with open('benchmark-questions.json', 'r') as f:
    questions = json.load(f)

# Review question structure
for q in questions[:5]:
    print(f"ID: {q['id']}, Category: {q['category']}, Max Score: {q['max_score']}")
    print(f"Question: {q['question'][:200]}...")
```

### 2. Implement Your Model

Edit `client/generate_predictions.py` to add your model logic.

### 3. Generate Predictions

Run the generation script to create answers for all 115 questions:

```bash
cd client
python generate_predictions.py
```

This creates `predictions.json` with all 115 answers.

### 4. Submit

Submit your predictions once:

```bash
python submit_predictions.py predictions.json -m "YourModel-v1" -o "sk-..."
```

## Best Practices

### Model Development

1. **Review benchmark questions**: Understand the scope and difficulty of all 115 questions
2. **Consider question difficulty**: Questions have varying max_scores (1-51 points)
3. **Handle long questions**: Some questions exceed 1,000 words
4. **Provide detailed answers**: Reference specific legal paragraphs when applicable
5. **Test your implementation**: Validate your model produces answers for all questions
6. **Use correct parameters**: Set `temperature=0` and `max_tokens=4096` to match benchmark evaluation
7. **Remove thinking traces**: If your model outputs `<think>...</think>` blocks, remove them before submission

### Answer Quality

- Cite relevant legal provisions (e.g., "§ 15 Abs. 1 S. 1 Nr. 2 EStG")
- Show calculations where applicable
- Structure complex answers clearly
- Use proper legal terminology
- Provide reasoning, not just conclusions

### Technical Considerations

- **Encoding**: Use UTF-8 for German characters (ä, ö, ü, ß)
- **Validation**: Test your submission format with `example_submission.json`
- **Error handling**: Check submission status and error messages
- **Timeout**: Evaluation may take several minutes

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**Validation Error: Missing question IDs**
```
Solution: Ensure all 115 question IDs are in your predictions.json
```

**Validation Error: Empty answers**
```
Solution: All answers must be non-empty strings
```

**Submission rejected: Too many submissions**
```
Solution: Up to 5 submissions per IP address are allowed
```

**OpenAI API key validation failed**
```
Solution: Provide a valid OpenAI API key starting with 'sk-'.
Ensure your key has access to gpt-4o.
Get a key at https://platform.openai.com/api-keys
```

**Evaluation failed or timed out**
```
Unfortunately no re-evaluation or refund is provided for failed evaluations.
See the Disclaimer section. You may resubmit with a new (different) predictions file
if you have remaining submissions.
```

**Connection Error**
```
Solution: Check server URL and network connection
```

### Getting Help

If you encounter issues:

1. Check the example submission format
2. Validate your JSON syntax
3. Review error messages carefully
4. Ensure all requirements are met

## Disclaimer & API Key Policy

> **Read carefully before submitting.**

- **Use a restricted, dedicated API key.** Create a new key at [platform.openai.com/api-keys](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys) with a spending limit sized for this benchmark (~$3–$12 USD per submission). The key must have access to **gpt-4o** (requires a paid OpenAI account with gpt-4o enabled). **Never use your primary or unrestricted API key.**

- **Key not persisted.** Your OpenAI API key is held in server memory solely for the duration of the evaluation and is never written to disk, logs, or any database. However, no server can guarantee absolute security against all possible threats.

- **No liability for API charges.** The service provider accepts no responsibility whatsoever for any OpenAI API charges incurred, whether from normal evaluation, unexpected errors, retries, or any other cause.

- **No liability for failed or incomplete evaluations.** Evaluations may fail, time out, or produce incorrect results due to OpenAI API errors, rate limits, server issues, or any other reason. We provide no guarantee of evaluation success, accuracy, or completeness. No refund or re-evaluation is guaranteed in any case.

- **No liability for security incidents.** In the event of a server breach, compromise, or any other security incident, the service provider accepts no responsibility for any resulting unauthorized API usage, charges, or damages of any kind.

- **By submitting, you explicitly accept all of the above risks and waive any claims against the service provider, FAU Erlangen-Nürnberg, and its contributors.**

## Citation

If you use this benchmark in your research, please cite:

```bibtex
@article{steuerllm,
  author = {Wind, Sebastian and Sopa, Jeta and Schmid, Laurin and Jackl, Quirin and Kiefer, Sebastian and Wu, Fei and Mayr, Martin and Köstler, Harald and Wellein, Gerhard and Maier, Andreas and Tayebi Arasteh, Soroosh},
  title = {SteuerLLM: Local specialized large language model for German tax law analysis},
  year = {2026},
  journal = {arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.11081},
  url = {https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.11081}
}
```

## Leaderboard

View current rankings and detailed results at:
```
https://steuerllm.i5.ai.fau.de/benchmark/leaderboard_page
```

## License

This work is licensed under a [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).

---

**Version**: 1.1  
**Last Updated**: February 2026  
**Benchmark Questions**: 115 total
